README.md, before:

# Commentary on Example 1

## Synopsis
The purpose of the example is to show the bare bones invocation of a JUnit test
from the command line and then provide a detailed commentary on the elementary
steps in the JUnit testing process.


In this example we have a Java source file which contains a SUT, a system
under test, and an accompanying JUnit 4 test.


## The System Under Test
The first step is to create the SUT - in this simple example I will create and
execute all commands from a `bash` shell:


```sh
$ vim helloWorld.java
...
$
```

Where `vim` is a well known text-editor which is invoked with a single argument
which the name of the Java source code.

`helloworld.java` is the SUT element in this testing example and is very simple in
its behaviour:

```java
import java.io.*;

public class helloWorld{

    private String name;

	public String sayHello(){
		return("Hello");
	}

	public String sayGoodbye(){
		return ("Goodbye");
	}

    public String sayName(String name){
        this.name = name;
        return name;
    }
}
```

Once we have written the source for the SUT, we then compile the source and create an executable class
file:
```sh
$ javac helloWorld.java
```

## The Junit Test Code

Having created the SUT, we now create a Junit test called helloWorldUnitTest:
```sh
$ vim helloWorldUnit.java
...
$
```

Which consists of the following code:

```java
import org.junit.*;
import static org.junit.Assert.*;
import java.util.*;

public class helloWorldUnitTest{

    @Test
    public void testSayHello(){
        helloWorld helloTest = new helloWorld();
        assertEquals("Hello", helloTest.sayHello());
    }

    @Test
    public void testSayGoodbye(){
        helloWorld helloTest = new helloWorld();
        assertEquals("Goodbye", helloTest.sayGoodbye());
	
    @Test
    public void testSayName(){
        String name = "Chester";
        helloWorld helloTest = new helloWorld();
        assertEquals(name, helloTest.sayName(name));
    }
}
```

This code consists of three tests all of which invoke the Junit test method
`assertEquals` which in this case tests the two parameters for equality.

We then compile the Junit test code:
```sh
$ javac -cp .:/usr/share/java/junit4.jar  helloWorldUnitTest.java
```
Noting the use of the `-cp` or classpath flag to locate the Junit jar file for the
compliler.


## Running the test from the command line

We invoke the Junit test.
```sh
$ java -cp .:/usr/share/java/junit4.jar org.junit.runner.JUnitCore  helloWorldUnitTest
JUnit version 4.12
...
Time: 0.003

OK (3 tests)
```

Again, note the use of the classpath to specify the location of the Junit jar file
in the local file-system. We should also note the invocation of the
`org.junit.runner.JUnitCore` class as the second argument to the java vm - this is
the Junit class responsible for running tests.

In this instance the SUT passed all three tests.

## The SUT Fails...
For the sake of completeness we make a minor alteration to the helloWorld class
to make it fail one of the unit tests:

```java
    public String sayGoodbye(){
		return ("goodbye");
	}
```
We then repeat the process above:
    1. Recompile helloWorld.java,
    2. And then rerun the JUnit test.

We observe the output:
```sh
$ java -cp .:/usr/share/java/junit4.jar org.junit.runner.JUnitCore  helloWorldUnitTest
JUnit version 4.12
..E.
Time: 0.004
There was 1 failure:
1) testSayGoodbye(helloWorldUnitTest)
org.junit.ComparisonFailure: expected:<[G]oodbye> but was:<[g]oodbye>
	at org.junit.Assert.assertEquals(Assert.java:115)
	at org.junit.Assert.assertEquals(Assert.java:144)
	at helloWorldUnitTest.testSayGoodbye(helloWorldUnitTest.java:16)
    ...
FAILURES!!!
Tests run: 3,  Failures: 1
$
```

Commit message:

Minor changes to README
Added some questions to the end of the README. Tidied up.

README.md, after:

# Commentary on Example 1

## Synopsis
The purpose of the example is to show the bare bones invocation of a JUnit test
from the command line and then provide a detailed commentary on the elementary
steps in the JUnit testing process.


In this example we have a Java source file which contains a SUT, a system
under test, and an accompanying JUnit 4 test.


## The System Under Test
The first step is to create the SUT - in this simple example I will create and
execute all commands from a `bash` shell:


```sh
$ vim helloWorld.java
...
$
```

Where `vim` is a well known text-editor which is invoked with a single argument
which the name of the Java source code.

`helloworld.java` is the SUT element in this testing example and is very simple in
its behaviour:

```java
import java.io.*;

public class helloWorld{

    private String name;

	public String sayHello(){
		return("Hello");
	}

	public String sayGoodbye(){
		return ("Goodbye");
	}

    public String sayName(String name){
        this.name = name;
        return name;
    }
}
```

Once we have written the source for the SUT, we then compile the source and create an executable class
file:
```sh
$ javac helloWorld.java
```

## The Junit Test Code

Having created the SUT, we now create a Junit test called helloWorldUnitTest:
```sh
$ vim helloWorldUnit.java
...
$
```

Which consists of the following code:

```java
import org.junit.*;
import static org.junit.Assert.*;
import java.util.*;

public class helloWorldUnitTest{

    @Test
    public void testSayHello(){
        helloWorld helloTest = new helloWorld();
        assertEquals("Hello", helloTest.sayHello());
    }

    @Test
    public void testSayGoodbye(){
        helloWorld helloTest = new helloWorld();
        assertEquals("Goodbye", helloTest.sayGoodbye());
	
    @Test
    public void testSayName(){
        String name = "Chester";
        helloWorld helloTest = new helloWorld();
        assertEquals(name, helloTest.sayName(name));
    }
}
```

This code consists of three tests all of which invoke the Junit test method
`assertEquals` which in this case tests the two parameters for equality.

We then compile the Junit test code:
```sh
$ javac -cp .:/usr/share/java/junit4.jar  helloWorldUnitTest.java
```
Noting the use of the `-cp` or classpath flag to locate the Junit jar file for the
compliler.


## Running the test from the command line

We invoke the Junit test.
```sh
$ java -cp .:/usr/share/java/junit4.jar org.junit.runner.JUnitCore  helloWorldUnitTest
JUnit version 4.12
...
Time: 0.003

OK (3 tests)
```

Again, note the use of the classpath to specify the location of the Junit jar file
in the local file-system. We should also note the invocation of the
`org.junit.runner.JUnitCore` class as the second argument to the java vm - this is
the Junit class responsible for running tests.

In this instance the SUT passed all three tests.

## The SUT Fails...
For the sake of completeness we make a minor alteration to the helloWorld class
to make it fail one of the unit tests, the lower case 'g' on the string
'goodbye':

```java
    public String sayGoodbye(){
		return ("goodbye");
	}
```
We then repeat the process above:
    1. Recompile helloWorld.java,
    2. And then rerun the JUnit test.

We observe the output:
```sh
$ java -cp .:/usr/share/java/junit4.jar org.junit.runner.JUnitCore  helloWorldUnitTest
JUnit version 4.12
..E.
Time: 0.004
There was 1 failure:
1) testSayGoodbye(helloWorldUnitTest)
org.junit.ComparisonFailure: expected:<[G]oodbye> but was:<[g]oodbye>
	at org.junit.Assert.assertEquals(Assert.java:115)
	at org.junit.Assert.assertEquals(Assert.java:144)
	at helloWorldUnitTest.testSayGoodbye(helloWorldUnitTest.java:16)
    ...
FAILURES!!!
Tests run: 3,  Failures: 1
$
```

So, interesting questions to be resolved are:
1. More realistic project organisation,
2. How to use packages,
3. How to use a build system such as Gradle.
4. How to use git and github.
